How blessed we are in Jehovah's organization,
to have so many men and women, both young and old,
who want to use their lives to serve Jehovah with a whole heart.
The Bible commends that wonderful spirit.
For example, at 1 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 1,
the Apostle Paul said,
if a man is reaching out to be an overseer,
he is desirous of a fine work.
Now commenting on this,
the May 15th, 2010 watchtower made this comment.
It said,
a Christian man does not automatically become an overseer.
He must reach out for this fine work.
It includes serving fellow believers
by genuinely caring for their needs.
A man who reaches out with proper motives
is not ambitious.
Instead, he is filled with an unselfish desire
to benefit others.
Well, we constantly need more brothers and sisters
who have that unselfish desire to want to serve others.
We need more pioneers.
We need more missionaries.
We need more circuit overseers.
We need more Bethelites.
We need more elders and ministerial servants
and construction volunteers.
The list just goes on and on.
That means that each one of us
need to constantly be considering
what we can do to be of greater use to Jehovah
and to our brothers and sisters.
Now this raises a question.
What is the most important thing
that we need to grow spiritually?
Well, what about knowledge?
Is knowledge the most important thing we need?
Well, first Corinthians chapter eight
and verse one says,
knowledge puffs up
but love builds up.
So we need to have knowledge
but it's not the most important thing.
When Melinda Kiefer talked to Brother Russell
in 1907 about her desire
to enter the full time service,
she said that she felt that
she needed to gain more knowledge
before she could do that.
In fact, it was just the preceding year
that she had received literature of the Bible students.
But how did Brother Russell reply?
Here's what he said.
If you want to wait until you know it all,
you'll never get started
but you'll learn as you go along.
How true?
Well, is it faith or hope?
Well, we certainly need faith.
Hebrews 11 verse six says,
without faith it is impossible
to please God well.
And we certainly need hope.
Hebrews chapter six and verse 19 says
that our hope is an anchor for the soul
both sure and firm.
But what is the greatest thing
that we need to grow spiritually
and be of greater use to our brothers and sisters?
Let's read it.
Let's go to 1 Corinthians chapter 13
and let's look here at verse 13.
It says,
now however, these three remain.
Faith, hope, love.
But the greatest of these
is love.
Now why is it that love
is the most important thing that we need
in order for in order to grow spiritually?
Well, it's because of what we read in our text this morning
at first John 4.8.
God is love.
Now commenting on this verse,
the June 1st 2002 watchtower made this comment.
It said,
so intense, so pure,
so perfect is God's love.
So thoroughly does it permeate his personality and actions
that it may rightly be spoken of,
that he may rightly be spoken of
as the very personification of love.
Everything, everything that Jehovah does
is guided by love.
So it's impossible for us to imitate Jehovah.
It's impossible for us to grow spiritually
and it's impossible for us to be of use to Jehovah
if we are not motivated by love.
In fact, the apostle Paul said in 1 Corinthians chapter 16
and verse 14,
let everything you do be done with love.
Well, Christian men and women who have that spirit
who are truly motivated and guided by love
are truly useful to our God Jehovah.
In fact, in Ephesians chapter 4,
the apostle Paul spoke about those who were gifts and men.
Now let's look at this together.
Ephesians chapter 4
and let's go to verse 11.
So here Paul lists off some of the assignments
that these ones were given.
He says, and he gave some as apostles,
some as prophets, some as evangelizers,
some as shepherds and teachers,
with a view to the readjustment of the holy ones
for ministerial work to build up the body of the Christ.
Well, now we hear we heard there
a number of different assignments
within God's organization.
But now how did these various ones
come to have these assignments?
Well, there's a clue.
If you go down to verse 15, look what it says.
But speaking the truth,
let us, do you notice?
Let us by love grow up in all things
into him who is the head Christ.
And then look at what it says at the end of verse 16.
When each respective member functions properly,
this contributes to the growth of the body
as it builds itself up in love.
So now what's the point?
Spiritual growth has to take place in love
and through love.
That's why those brothers were appointed
to those responsibilities.
They had that proper motivation.
They were growing in love for God and their brothers.
Well, otherwise, if that's not the case,
what happens?
Well, look at what the Apostle Paul said
in 1 Corinthians chapter 13.
And this time, let's read those first three verses.
1 Corinthians 13, verse 1.
If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels
but do not have love,
I have become a clanging gong or a clashing symbol.
And if I have the gift of prophecy
and understand all the sacred secrets and all knowledge,
and if I have all the faith so as to move mountains
but do not have love, I am nothing.
And if I give all my belongings to feed others
and if I hand over my body so that I may boast
but do not have love, I do not benefit at all.
Well, what's the point?
You see, Jehovah wants people who are not trying
to impress other people who are not motivated
by a desire to gain some privilege or some position.
He wants people who love him with their whole heart
and who have that same love for other people
that both he and his son constantly manifest.
Brother Valodia in Ukraine is an elder and a regular pioneer.
Now, he along with nine other brothers
volunteer to deliver food and medication
to their fellow believers in one of the major cities there.
Now, people in that city at this time
are totally dependent on humanitarian aid
because the shops and the drug stores are literally empty.
They also bring gasoline to the local brothers
who use their cars to help other brothers in that city,
risking their lives.
These 10 brothers travel to that city two or three times a week
depending on when the heavy bombardment is occurring.
They provide the brothers with their daily necessities
and they also transport those who want to leave the area.
Valodia says this, I'm not special.
We're just helping one another and we feel Jehovah's support.
What an amazing thing brothers and sisters it is
to be one of Jehovah's witnesses
and to be surrounded by men and women
who are motivated by their deep love for Jehovah
and an unselfish desire to serve others.
May we each search for ways that we can grow by love
into more and more useful tools
in the hand of our marvelous, our amazing God, Jehovah.